my name is cliff cramp and I'm a visual
storyteller I've been illustrating for a
number of years during that time I've
been able to work on a lot of great
projects with a lot of wonderful people
and corel painter has been a big part of
what I do
I began my career working as a
traditional illustrator I played with
the digital media but it really wasn't
satisfied with the outcome I used it
mainly as a comping tool for my
traditional paintings and tragically in
the year 2000 I had a studio fire so I
thought I would jump in a little bit
more to the digital media because the
industry was changing rapidly and it was
about then that somebody introduced me
to a corel painter and I really really
liked it and one of the reasons why I
liked it so much is I was able to mimic
the workflow that I had for traditional
my traditional work so the tool sets
were really natural and so I took to it
and I've been working with it ever since
I work on a 27 inch imac in a 22 inch
cintiq my favorite brush in Corel
Painter is digital water simple water
what it allows me to do is block in a
painting quickly executing shape form
and color in a really short period of
time I then moved to opaque media for
the detail and then back to digital
water in order to unify the temperature
of shadows the real beauty of painter is
that the tool sets do make it easy for
one to transition from analog to digital
when I was contemplating that transition
many years ago I didn't want my digital
media work to look too different from my
traditional media work much of the
digital work that I was seeing at the
time looked really sterile the natural
feel to the brushes was exactly what I
was looking for it was like artists were
creating software for artists and the
improvements over the years have been
outstanding
I'm an educator as well as a
professional illustrator I'm the area
coordinator of the illustration program
the california state
university-fullerton in our program we
teach traditional and digital media
painter is one of the software we use in
our curriculum I've been able to work
with a lot of great young talent they
make me want to be better it's a real
pleasure to be a Corel Painter master
for 2015 I look forward to an exciting
year thanks corel
you